Moving content from composer to use-cases (#1817)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/api-testing/use-cases/auth-token.md

---
id: auth-token
title: Exchanging Token between API calls
sidebar_label: Exchanging Token
description: How to exchange authentication tokens between API calls
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

As part of good testing strategy is create end-to-end tests that resemble common user flows. Let's consider the scenario where a company has an authentication server. This server, when given the proper user credentials, returns an authentication token. This token is required for all other calls throughout the platform's API environment. Without this first API call, none of the other API calls can work.

## What You'll Need

- A Sauce Labs account ([Log in](https://accounts.saucelabs.com/am/XUI/#login/) or sign up for a [free trial license](https://saucelabs.com/sign-up)).
- An existing API Testing Project. For details on how to create one, see [API Testing Quickstart](/api-testing/quickstart/).

> ## Token-based Authentication API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Now, we'll show how to make the authentication call, save the returned token in a variable and use it to make subsequent calls.

> ### Step 1: Make the authorization call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Make the Authorization Call
```

> As first step we need to make the call to retrive the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, make the call to retrieve the token.
```

To get the token, make a `POST` call to the authorization server.

- Url (the endpoint you are calling) - for example `https://m2-authentication.load2.apifortress.com/request/token`
- Variable (the variable name) - for example `authPayload`
- Mode (the variable type) - for example `json`

The POST requires as Body the `user_id` and the `password`:

- Content-Type - for example `application/json`
- Body - for example

```json
{
	"user_id": 4628362,
	"password": "abc123"
}
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/api-testing/post-getting-token.png')} alt="POST request to authentication server" width="600"/>

Given proper credentials, the authentication server will return a payload response with `user_id` and `access_token`

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/api-testing/int-token.png')} alt="The user token" width="400"/>

:::tip
You can double-check that the response contains the correct data by adding an assertion verifying that the `user_id` provided in the Request Body is the same as in the Response Payload.
:::

> ### Step 2: Save the token for further calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Save the Token for Further Calls
```

> Next, we need to assign the token to a variable. Variables are used to store data temporarily for a test, but you can use the Sauce Labs API Testing Vault for permanent variables. For more information, see [Creating Reusable Variables and Snippets with the Vault](/api-testing/vault)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, assign the token to a variable. Variables are used to store data temporarily for a test, but you can use the Sauce Labs API Testing Vault for permanent variables. For more information, see [Creating Reusable Variables and Snippets with the Vault](/api-testing/vault)).
```

Add a `Set (variable)` component.

- Variable (the variable name) - `access_token`
- Mode (the variable type) - `String`
- Value (the value of the variable) - `${authPayload.access_token}`

<img src={useBaseUrl('/img/api-testing/int-assign-token.png')} alt="Setting the variable"/>

This step takes the `access_token` value in the `authPayload` response, and sets it as `access_token`. The response body from the orginal POST call was saved to a variable called `authPayload` and the key for the token is `access_token`, which can be found by calling `authPayload.access_token`. We do this so we don't have to manually invoke a variable every time it is needed.

:::note
The dollar sign and brackets are necessary when referencing variables so that Sauce Labs API Testing knows to interpret what’s between the brackets instead of using it literally.
:::

> ### Step 3: Make a follow-up call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3: Make a Follow-up Call
```

> Next, as third step we are going to call the cart function that requires the token granted by the authentication server in order to add items to a cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can call the cart function that requires the token granted by the authentication server to add items to a cart.
```

Add a `PUT` request to the cart endpoint to update the cart.

- Url (the endpoint you are calling) - for example `https://m2-authentication.load2.apifortress.com/retail/cart`
- Variable (the variable name) - for example `updateCart`
- Mode (the variable type) - for example `json`

The PUT requires to pass the token granted by the authentication server as Header (we saved as a Variable):

- Name (the variable name) - for example `user_token`
- Value (the value of the variable) - for example `${access_token}`

It also requires a JSON object as a Body that the server will recognize as item id and quantities.

- Content-Type - for example `application/json`
- Body - for example

```json
{
    "1": 1,
    "2": 2,
    "3": 3,
    "8": 1,
    "9": 3
}
```

Now, you can add assertions to verify the payload response returned by the call.

### Step 4: Reuse the token in one more call

You can reuse the token as many times as you want inside the same test.

> As last step, we are going to call the cart to view items currently into it, after the update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have updated the cart, you can add a `GET` request to return the items that are currently in it. 
```
